I anticipate that there will be hardly any black
oil industry in the United States. Currently,
we're at a level of about 6 million barrels a day.
Forty years from now, I would anticipate we'll be
below a million barrels of black oil per day. Gas
production, currently we're running about 17
trillion cubic feet a year. I would not be
surprised 40 years from now, that we may still be at
14, 15 trillion cubic feet a year. We do have a
pretty fair gas reserve that's left unexplored.
But black oil, we're essentially out of black oil
reserves. People say that you can't deplete oil.
You need to go to Ukraine. Ukraine at one time was
producing 3 million barrels of oil a day back in the
40s. They're probably producing less than
300,000 barrels a day. and there's essentially no
place to drill. It's just an area that was drilled
over. Romania is the same thing. Romania was a huge
producer in the 2030s and 40s, and they're
essentially depleted. So barring the
development of cold fusion or nuclear fusion, the
oil industry is going to be around producing
energy. They're going to be around producing
energy, predominantly gas. Gas production in
19... 94, 95, wellhead value will exceed the value
of oil production for the first time. And it will
continue to be a bigger and bigger share. And where
are the gas reserves in the rest of the world? I
mean, outside of the United States? Outside of the
U.S. Part of the greatest gas reserves that are
known are in Russia. There's tremendous gas
reserves. The United States probably has 160
trillion feet of gas, of proven gas reserves.
Russia probably has at least 10 times that amount
that there have been discovery wells drilled in.
They have not developed them because they don't
have the pipeline outlets for it. Indonesia has
tremendous gas reserves, wells that are capable
of producing 100 billion feet a day. Average well
in the United States produces less than half a
million feet. Indonesia, as well, is capable of
producing 200 times what our average will. The
problem is that there's no population centers
that can utilize that much gas. Saudi Arabia has a
tremendous amount of gas. Libya has a lot of gas.
But, of course, to liquefy this is very expensive.
It runs $5, $6 an MCF to liquefy natural gas and use
it. And it's just not competitive with fuel oil at
this time. So it has to, the supply, the production
needs to be near the end users. Yes, right. Now
Russia is close enough to Europe that eventually,
probably in the next 10 years, there will be major
pipeline construction. You need something on the
order of probably $5 billion worth of pipeline
construction to get Russian gas into Europe. Now,
there are some pipelines in there now, but they're
not in there. Where does Western, or even Eastern
Europe, stand in energy for the future? Eastern
Europe is pretty energy deficient. I mean, they
import a lot out of the, of course, the Dutch North
Sea. British North Sea has brought in a lot.
Norway. And a lot comes from Russia. But the
Russian, of course, imports are declining now.
But there's a good bit of energy over there. And of
course, they're not very far away from Saudi
either. You can bring in Saudi crude easily. So is
it that they don't have it in the ground, or are they
like the Soviets and not able to get it out? They
just simply don't have it. Romania has had old, old
fields that are essentially depleted. There's
not very much prospect in Poland, virtually none
in Italy. Spain has very poor prospects. Some in
the Paris Basin in France, but not big reserves. A
little bit in Germany, but there's really not a lot
of onshore production in Europe. How will the
rules of our industry change? How will the rules of
the game change with changing environmental
standards?
Well, the industry is really a lot further
developed environmentally than most people,
particularly outside the industry, think. There
was a lot of excesses, a lot of damage to
environmental situations in the 30s. Wells blew
out. They let them blow out, catch on fire. We ran
oil down the creeks, flared gas, ran salt water on
the ground. The commissions began tightening the
rules, the state commissions, oil and gas
commissions, railroad commission, began
tightening the rules in the early 50s. By the early
60s, they were enforcing these rules. They were
requiring cement jobs be inspected. They reduced
all saltwater disposal out on the ground.
carefully control the completion of wells. I
would say by the early 70s, the environmental
controls in the petroleum industry were strictly
in place. Now, some of the things that they're
talking about today certainly is going to be some
problems, but we're a lot further along
controlling our environmental problems than
people realize that we are. And we started a long
time ago, long before it became fashionable to
talk about So you don't think that that's going to
continue to change our costs, our ability to
survive? I think it'll have some impact on it, and
of course they always talk about some scary
things, but generally we don't see it as a major
problem. We routinely police our locations,
looking for any type of spills and this type of
thing. We try to run clean operations, and I think
most people do. Can you give me an example or two
about How strict the regulations that we operate
are under are? Well, we ran about two barrels of
salt water inadvertently in a creek in West
Virginia when we were operating there in 1979. And
they put our superintendent in jail. So not that we
didn't intend to do it, but they certainly had our
attention a long time ago. And this was not very
salty water either. They're quite strictly
enforced. For example, if you go to cement a well
today, you have to file a permit long in advance,
you have to notify the Railroad Commission where
the water sands are, you've got to run pipe through
all those sands, you've got to cement very
carefully, and in all probability there will be an
inspector on location to see that you cemented it
properly. When you go to plug wells, there are very
strict plugging requirements that we didn't have
30 years ago. But I think most of the environmental
requirements are pretty well in place. Looking at
the numbers for 1993, it shows that we have 575,000
wells. That's oil wells, I believe. You're right,
that's oil wells. The total wells are 865,000.
If we have to be very careful about the way we plug
wells, and if we're getting less and less money
from each well that we have to plug, are we going to
have enough money to plug adequately all the wells
that we have? Well, to be an operator in any state,
when you drill a well or you take over a well, you're
required to be bonded. You're required to have the
money. You either put it up in cash or put up a bond to
plug that well. Now, I guess there are some wells
that go through bankruptcy and some things like
that, that there may be some loopholes in it. But I
would say that an extremely high percentage of the
wells, the plugging costs are already in place.
The largest oil field in Alabama is the Citronella
unit. I've been the engineering manager there for
many years. We have an escrow fund that within
another three years, the field will last another
10 or 15 years. then three more years we will have
enough cash on hand to plug all of our wells at the
time that's required to plug them. So we're
looking ahead to our plugging requirements.
Do you have any other, back to policy, domestic
policy, have there been any big domestic policy
dodges or anything that they could have done
better?
The petroleum industry is so divided that there's
really no clear action that is recommended from
the industry that would help them. There's talks
of tax breaks. There's talks of lesser royalties
on offshore production. There's discussion of
opening up federal lands that have been put off
limits for drilling. Frankly, I think these are
all mandates that really are not going to do very
much for the industry. solution that I've ever
seen that would have any consequence and it would
save stripper production to some extent is if the
federal government would put a floor under the
import price of oil, say at $20 a barrel. This would
automatically raise the price of oil to $20 a
barrel and if they bring it in below that, well then
the government just takes the profit out of it.
This is terribly unpopular, and I don't think that
there is any political support. If you've got 100
senators, I doubt you'd get one of them to vote for
it. I don't see any other solution. I think the
other things are simply short-term band-aids for
the industry.
I'm trying to look over my notes. I don't see...
don't see any other any other questions i had is
there anything else about the history of the oil
and gas the last 30 years that is important that we
haven't talked about i think that we've covered
certainly the major factors in it we've covered
employment the capital expenditure levels we've
talked about low supply of oil and gas where we're
going some view of where we're going on the
international scene i think you've covered Most
of the topics are consequences. All right. Thank
you very much. Yes, sir.